Do you remember this scene?
You may have traveled half-way across the
globe.
Fourteen hour flight.
The flight might have been delayed along the
way.
TWO HOURS.
You would have been a paragon of patience.
In peace, patiently, calmly, you would have
waited it all out.
Tolerated it all.
But, in that fifteen-second gap between the
aeroplane coming to a halt and the attendant
announcing that you may now take your baggage
out, those FIFTEEN SECONDS, you are not able
to wait..!
And, one guy, or one lady, starts it..
It becomes such a mess..
Everybody is actually delayed further because
of that mess..
But still..
That one person kicks it off.
One bad soul.
I have something to tell you about this.
Let’s go.
Namaste!
In Four Fifty Eight, we are going to look
at The Greater Good of the Greater Number.
Even if it is a hindrance to some, if it means
the greater good for the greater number, how
do we make it happen..?
And how to ensure they don’t suffer because
of those one or two idiots?
Let us get started.
In Quotidian 146, we talked about something
called the Broken Window Theory.
“There is a theory called the Broken Window
Theory.
And, this is what it says.
In a community, in an environment, in a neighbourhood,
everything is fine, even if the police isn’t
watching, everything is fine.. until there
is the first window that is broken by accident
perhaps and left unattended.
One window sill, broken at just one place,
ignored by the owners and the powers that
be.., the neighbourhood becomes labeled as
one that nobody cares for, and soon, somebody
is breaking the car window downstairs, somebody
else starts spraying graffiti obsceneties
in the wall around the corner, a bystander
starts littering, and grand larceny is just
a short time away.
All because of a broken mirror left unattended.
If a glasspane is attended to immediately
after it is broken, the neighbourhood is safe.
Or, so the theory goes.
Some have started questioning this.
But, there is this research that was done,
and people said that there was this Broken
Window Theory.
The first window that’s left unattended..”
That’s the Broken Window Theory.
There has to be somebody to oversee things
all the time.
Or at least, you should create the impression
that there is somebody up there, watching
and ensuring that there is no spiralling out,
uncontrollable growth of the inherent evil
nature in our minds.
When I use the phrase “inherent evil nature”,
I am reminded of this book.
Lord of the Flies — it was called.
A plane carrying boys crashlands in an island,
and the boys are left without adult supervision.
They form clans.
There is a democracy on the one side, there
is a dictatorship on the other.
How they get into fights, how there is a chase,
a hunt, a murder, … things just become uncontrollable
after a point of time, simply because they
lack adult supervision, and simply because,
any group of people, left without a structure,
they are bound to deteriorate.
Their evil, base nature will come out.
Their good nature won’t be expressed, alas.
Their crass, selfish alterego will take charge.
This will be so beautifully depicted in this
book.
I have referred to this lady quite a number
of times.
Kathy Sierra is her name.
She has authored amazing books, delivered
wonderful talks, all of which, they were based
on the research, the writing, the interacting
with customers and visitors that she had done
for probably more than a decade, on her blog.
In the blog titled, “Creating Passionate
Users”, all along till 2007, she was maintaining
a very good standard of frequency and customer
interaction.
One day, in 2007, things went out of hand..
An anonymous post was made, criticising her,
threatening her, all the way to sexual abuse,
and a threat of death.
Something just snapped inside her.
Kathy Sierra said, “Enough is enough..
I am afraid..
I can’t make public appearances any more.
I can’t deliver lectures any more.
I am not able to post any blogs any longer.
I am going OFF the internet.
One person..
They haven’t found out YET, who the person
was.
After all these years.
We don’t know who did that.
But, the prank played by just one person…
I am just looking back and wondering..
How much more could she have done?
How much more could she have shared?
How many more amazing insights she might have
given us..?
That is the feeling I have.
So, that one evil person should not hold the
rest of the good ones, both willing to give
as well as wanting to take, they can’t hold
those people at ransom.
Something should be done.
Some sort of policing.
Some sort of loose structure.
A framework.
For punishment.
A movie.
Titled Prison Break.
It is a series.
You can watch it even today, on Hotstar.
In Season Three of this amazing TV series,
That guy wearing the orange dress is the villain.
This other person is the hero.
But, that villain, his name is Lechero..
He threatens our hero, and says, “I am not
worried about driving a knife into you, okay?
I don’t mind killing you..
What can this policeman do?
I am already in here for life.
I have six LIFE sentences.
Not in parallel.
In SEQUENCE.
Six imprisonments for life.
Which means I am here for life.
What can they do?
What further punishment can they pile on top
of me?”
You see that?
When some situation is without redemption..
You remember that story about the little dragon
that slowly started growing?
We saw the problem if we don’t acknowledge
something what happens.
In the same way, when this person is told
“You can’t get out..” he is also being
told “You can do anything else also if you
want, because, anyway, however good you transform
yourself into, you are not getting out!”
Wrong, is it not?
So, there has to be a midway policy..
You can’t banish the person.
But, you should punish the person too.
What do we do?
Take this story as an example.
This happened LAST NIGHT, in the airplane.
I was waiting to get off the plane.
I am being the good soul here, obedient and
rule-bound.
Everybody else starts getting up, even before
the attendant has said, “You may now get
up and take your baggage out”.
Guess what that lady did?
She said, “I have all the time in the world!”
(I am already chafing here — “I don’t!”)
We are NOT allowing you to exit the airplane
until all of you sit back in your chairs.
All of you sit back down.
And then, I will turn the seat-belt-removal
sign on.
And then, one by one, you can offplane.
Basically, she delayed me (Mr. Nice Guy!)
for fifteen extra minutes, because, I was
obeying the rules but somebody else, some
other idiot did not!
Is this fair?
Is it fair to delay somebody because somebody
else was misbehaving?
In Mumbai, they tried this out.
They called it the Punishing Signal.
If you honk unnecessarily at a signal, they
set up decibel meters and they wired it up
to the signal.
If the noise level crossed a particular threshold
level, the noise made by the impatient twowheeler
riders and car drivers.., if it did, the signal
that should have turned green by then, would
remain RED.
Everybody had to cool down.
I hadn’t honked at all — but, I was being
punished alongside all those others, those
silly people, who didn’t realise what was
happening, who didn’t care about what was
happening..
pranksters, trolls, .. BECAUSE OF THEM, I
suffered..
One trouble-maker, everybody else is made
to wait..!
Is that fair?
We are using this book as part of our curriculum
at Zoho Schools.
A couple of days ago, we encountered a chapter
where he talks about this specific scenario.
If you create or are part of any community
at all, that community will always have one
or two trouble-makers.
As a software engineer.., if you are a policeman,
if a car violates a rule in your presence,
you are in the physical world, you are forced
to follow some laws of physics..
But, in the digital world, if you are a software
engineer, if you were creating a platform
where people could come and collaborate online,
as a community.. in that digital community,
there are three beautiful ways you can handle
the pranksters and trolls.
It is not fair to make EVERYBODY wait just
because one person crossed the line.
That traffic signal..
It is just a person, why not we turn a blind
eye towards them…that attitude is dangerous
too..
Remember what happened to Kathy Sierra.
And, there is one more thing that people do,
that backfires.
Which is, Public Shaming.
They called it the Dunce cap.
Once upon a time, there was this person named
Mr. Duns, a genius thinker.
And, the Duns cap, a pointy headdress once
symbolised knowledge and wisdom and genius.
But, now things have changed.
Five hundred..
six hundred years later..
The dunce cap — classic schoolroom scenario..
this one.
A boy has committed a mistake.
And, in front of the whole classroom, the
boy is placed on a high chair like this, wearing
a cap like that, facing away towards the wall.
Until the class ends.
What feeling is this child going to leave
the classroom with?
Will the child ever love the teacher?
Or the other kids who laughed in class?
What motivation remains in the child to come
back and be a better child?
Perform better?
You’ve drained it.
That book tells us about three key words.
One is called “Hellbanning”.
It is about creating a special place in your
software, the “Hell”, and banishing such
trouble-makers to that world.
And, when you hellban somebody, they don’t
know that they have been banned..
What is meant by “banning”?
You type something inappropriate or obscene…
And the system wakes up, and reacts with,
“Sorry, you cannot try another comment for
the next 24 hours”.
The moment you see this, what do you do?
Wait 24 hours?
Or, angrily create another account to go on
with your rant?
You bang the keyboard.
You pubicly shame that website probably.
You will try all these sorts of things to
“get back at them”.
But, if you have been hellbanned, you don’t
even know you’ve been banned!
The comments you type away will seem like
they have been accepted.
TO YOU, they will show up just fine.
But, others?
They won’t even know you exist!
That you made a comment, an obscene remark,
they wouldn’t know.
A cool off period later, you are welcome back.
Your comments appear.
That’s the way it works.
Hellbanning protects you from yourself..
And, of course, protects everybody else from
you!
There is another slight twist to the hellban…!
When you enter the Hell, you see ONLY the
others who have been hellbanned..
“Fight among yourselves.
Go at it.
Each of you deserve the other, after all!”
The second interesting keyword I learned?
It is “Slowbanning”.
Do you remember this scene from Mr. Bean?
That is slowbanning..
We artificially introduce a sense of slowness.
Every little thing you try, you are going
to be forced to do it in slow motion.
You want to press a key, type a word, it starts
appearing glacially slowly on screen.
Or, you submit a simple form, it takes ten
minutes to get submitted and gets loaded.
You want to load a page, images don’t load
at all, or take a long long while to load.
As a programmer, they can do that to you.
They can identify that you are the troublemaker,
you are the troll, and put you on the slowbanning
path.
Whatever you ask for, whatever you request
to the server, they can relegate you to the
Slow Queue!
Everything will look like how it looked to
Mr. Bean today!
That is slowbanning.
And then, there is the third word that I learned.
Called “Errorbanning”.
Errorbanning is just randomly introducing
errors..
A website is running all quite fine, and you
ask for a page and it loads a blank page.
Or, say, “Sorry, record not found, try again..”
You type out the correct username and password,
and it says, “Username not found, try again”.
Fourth attempt — same username password
combo lets you in.. but, when you are errorbanned,
you will be surrounded by messages like these.
You will be confused..
This would have been a road you drove through,
every day, but today, you are met with signs
like these!
What will you do!?
What will you do?!
That, is errorbanning.
The idea then, is to discourage you from being
yourself.
Trying to introduce additional layers of discomfort..
To remind you that there is an extremely powerful
being out there, that is just waking up, careful..
Hellbanning.
Slowbanning.
Errorbanning.
The closing thought is a thought I got myself..
when I learned these three words.
Just like you, I have also seen slow loading
pages.
I have also encountered scenarios where everything
should have worked, but it just randomly crashed
on me and threw an error..
I wondered..
Is that a coincidence, or was I actually flirting
with that dangerous slow-ban, error-ban, algorithm?
Was I risking it?
It is a question you need to ask yourselves
too.
When the internet seems slow, it could instead
be that just that page of just that website,
just for you, has been made consciously slower.
Become a good person!
All the best!
We will meet again soon!
Thank you!